README.md, before:

# README

This README would normally document whatever steps are necessary to get the
application up and running.

Things you may want to cover:

* Ruby version

* System dependencies

* Configuration

* Database creation

* Database initialization

* How to run the test suite

* Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

* Deployment instructions

* ...

## RESTful Routes for Databases (no views)
- index
- show
- create
- update
- destroy

## Wildlife Tracker Challenge
The Forest Service is considering a proposal to place in conservancy a forest of virgin Douglas fir just outside of Portland, Oregon. Before they give the go-ahead, they need to do an environmental impact study. They've asked you to build an API the rangers can use to report wildlife sightings.

Story: As a developer I can create an animal model in the database. An animal has the following information: common name, latin name, kingdom (mammal, insect, etc.).  

Created my rails app:
```
$  rails new wildlife_tracker -d postgresql -T
$  rails db:create
$  cd wildlife_tracker
$  rails db:create
$  bundle add rspec-rails
$  rails generate rspec:install
$  rails s
$  code .
$  rails g resource Animal name:string latin:string kingdom:string
$  rails db:migrate
$  rails c
```
Created some models for the database:
```Ruby
Animal.create(name:"Lion", latin:"Panthera leo", kingdom:"Mammal")
Animal.create(name:"Capybara", latin:"Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris", kingdom:"Mammal")
Animal.create(name:"Black Widow Spider", latin:"Latrodectus", kingdom:"Arachnida")
```

Story: As the consumer of the API I can see all the animals in the database.
Hint: Make a few animals using Rails Console

Story: As the consumer of the API I can update an animal in the database.

Story: As the consumer of the API I can destroy an animal in the database.

Story: As the consumer of the API I can create a new animal in the database.

Story: As the consumer of the API I can create a sighting of an animal with date (use the datetime datatype), a latitude, and a longitude.
Hint: An animal has_many sightings. (rails g resource Sighting animal_id:integer ...)
Hint: Datetime is written in Rails as “year-month-day hr:min:sec" (“2022-01-28 05:40:30")

Story: As the consumer of the API I can update an animal sighting in the database.

Story: As the consumer of the API I can destroy an animal sighting in the database.

Story: As the consumer of the API, when I view a specific animal, I can also see a list sightings of that animal.

Hint: Checkout the Ruby on Rails API docs on how to include associations.

Story: As the consumer of the API, I can run a report to list all sightings during a given time period.
Hint: Your controller can look like this:

```Ruby
class SightingsController < ApplicationController
  def index
    sightings = Sighting.where(date: params[:start_date]..params[:end_date])
    render json: sightings
  end
end
```
Remember to add the start_date and end_date to what is permitted in your strong parameters method. In Postman, you will want to utilize the params section to get the correct data. Also see Routes with Params .

Stretch Challenges
Note: All of these stories should include the proper RSpec tests. Validations will require specs in spec/models, and the controller method will require specs in spec/requests.

Story: As the consumer of the API, I want to see validation errors if a sighting doesn't include: latitude, longitude, or a date.

Story: As the consumer of the API, I want to see validation errors if an animal doesn't include a common name, or a latin name.

Story: As the consumer of the API, I want to see a validation error if the animals latin name matches exactly the common name.

Story: As the consumer of the API, I want to see a validation error if the animals latin name or common name are not unique.

Story: As the consumer, I want to see a status code of 422 when a post request can not be completed because of validation errors.
Check out Handling Errors in an API Application the Rails Way

Super Stretch Challenge
Story: As the consumer of the API, I can submit sighting data along with a new animal in a single API call.
Hint: Look into accepts_nested_attributes_for

Commit message:

created an index RESTful route, and screenshots folder to show postman queries

README.md, after:

# README

This README would normally document whatever steps are necessary to get the
application up and running.

Things you may want to cover:

* Ruby version

* System dependencies

* Configuration

* Database creation

* Database initialization

* How to run the test suite

* Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

* Deployment instructions

* ...

## RESTful Routes for Databases (no views)
- index
- show
- create
- update
- destroy

## Wildlife Tracker Challenge
The Forest Service is considering a proposal to place in conservancy a forest of virgin Douglas fir just outside of Portland, Oregon. Before they give the go-ahead, they need to do an environmental impact study. They've asked you to build an API the rangers can use to report wildlife sightings.

Story: As a developer I can create an animal model in the database. An animal has the following information: common name, latin name, kingdom (mammal, insect, etc.).  

Created my rails app:
```
$  rails new wildlife_tracker -d postgresql -T
$  rails db:create
$  cd wildlife_tracker
$  rails db:create
$  bundle add rspec-rails
$  rails generate rspec:install
$  rails s
$  code .
$  rails g resource Animal name:string latin:string kingdom:string
$  rails db:migrate
$  rails c
```


Story: As the consumer of the API I can see all the animals in the database.
Hint: Make a few animals using Rails Console

Created some animals for the database:
```Ruby
Animal.create(name:"Lion", latin:"Panthera leo", kingdom:"Mammal")
Animal.create(name:"Capybara", latin:"Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris", kingdom:"Mammal")
Animal.create(name:"Black Widow Spider", latin:"Latrodectus", kingdom:"Arachnida")
```

- Work on Index RESTful route:
```Ruby
    def index
        animals = Animal.all
        render json: animals
    end
```
![index](screenshots/indeximg.png)
Story: As the consumer of the API I can update an animal in the database.

Story: As the consumer of the API I can destroy an animal in the database.

Story: As the consumer of the API I can create a new animal in the database.

Story: As the consumer of the API I can create a sighting of an animal with date (use the datetime datatype), a latitude, and a longitude.
Hint: An animal has_many sightings. (rails g resource Sighting animal_id:integer ...)
Hint: Datetime is written in Rails as “year-month-day hr:min:sec" (“2022-01-28 05:40:30")

Story: As the consumer of the API I can update an animal sighting in the database.

Story: As the consumer of the API I can destroy an animal sighting in the database.

Story: As the consumer of the API, when I view a specific animal, I can also see a list sightings of that animal.

Hint: Checkout the Ruby on Rails API docs on how to include associations.

Story: As the consumer of the API, I can run a report to list all sightings during a given time period.
Hint: Your controller can look like this:

```Ruby
class SightingsController < ApplicationController
  def index
    sightings = Sighting.where(date: params[:start_date]..params[:end_date])
    render json: sightings
  end
end
```
Remember to add the start_date and end_date to what is permitted in your strong parameters method. In Postman, you will want to utilize the params section to get the correct data. Also see Routes with Params .

Stretch Challenges
Note: All of these stories should include the proper RSpec tests. Validations will require specs in spec/models, and the controller method will require specs in spec/requests.

Story: As the consumer of the API, I want to see validation errors if a sighting doesn't include: latitude, longitude, or a date.

Story: As the consumer of the API, I want to see validation errors if an animal doesn't include a common name, or a latin name.

Story: As the consumer of the API, I want to see a validation error if the animals latin name matches exactly the common name.

Story: As the consumer of the API, I want to see a validation error if the animals latin name or common name are not unique.

Story: As the consumer, I want to see a status code of 422 when a post request can not be completed because of validation errors.
Check out Handling Errors in an API Application the Rails Way

Super Stretch Challenge
Story: As the consumer of the API, I can submit sighting data along with a new animal in a single API call.
Hint: Look into accepts_nested_attributes_for
